Physically, Maxwell is a short, grey haired, grey eyed man who has a
penchant for wearing grey.  The reasons for this are revealed in <a
href="#apocalypse">John's Apocalypse</a>

Maxwell Greysen was, on earth, a popular science fiction writer.  This
was not something he ever wanted to be -- he had always hoped to be a
<i>good</i> science fiction writer, and that is an entirely different
animal.  Maxwell's popularity was due primarily to two factors.

Firstly, he has been writing a science-fiction series for several years,
known as the "DeathBlaster trilogy".  Although it is currently in its
ninth book, the publishers like the sound of the word "trilogy" so they
keep calling it that.  Ever since "DeathBlaster III: Galactor of the Moon
People", it's been downhill for Max.

Second, his publishers always enclosed a color photograph of him at the
back of every book. He looked more like a rock star than a novelist --
very dark black hair, boyish features, bright green eyes... Also, the
particular picture they used was taken before the publishing industry
completely sucked the life and energy out of him.

If Maxwell's fans had seen him in the days before he was transported to
Divunal, they wouldn't have been nearly so eager to idolize him.  His hair
was greasy and unkempt, his green eyes were perpetually bloodshot from
stress and alcohol, which did little to keep his features looking
"boyish".

Drunk and looking for inspiration in Sam's Used Book Emporium, Maxwell
passed out in an obscure corner of the bookstore.  He awoke later
disoriented, and unable to find his way out.

Tsiale, the guardian spirit of the library in Divunal, introduced herself
to Maxwell and showed him the nature of his new powers.  He learned them
painstakingly over a period of months, and after having mastered them
completely, he built himself a palace in a painting off of the art room.

In Divunal, Maxwell has a relationship with the written word which is
somewhat like the Force -- sometimes he can use it to change things,
sometimes he has to obey its commands.  Divunal is the way it is in
part because Maxwell has been writing stories about it -- Maxwell is
the way he is in part because he is a character in that story.
